You are taking a health insurance policy for your family.  The
premium also
seems fine right now.  The cover is also decent.  But after 5 to 6
years, when medical inflation would have doubled,
a major hospital bill can reach Rs 30 to 40
lakh.  At that time, will your
health insurance policy support you or will you
only remember the promises in the brochures?
To answer this question, today we are going to
compare two premium health
insurance plans.  Care Supreme by Care Health
and Elevate by ICIC LBD.  By the end of this video,
you will be able to clearly decide
which plan is
stronger and future-proof for your family in the long term.
Before continuing further let me
quickly introduce myself.  I am
Soni Chauhan and welcome to Policy Hub.
Here we
explain insurance in simple language without confusing
terms.  Today's comparison
is completely practical, not from a marketing angle
but from a real life usage angle.  And
yes, if you still need guidance specific to your case after watching the video,
please book a free consultation with PolicyUp's certified experts using the link given in the description.
Before moving ahead, let us understand the background of both the companies.
Care Health Insurance is a
specialized health insurance company that
focuses solely on health and wellness products.
Their approach is a bit more
tailored to retail customers.  Where the
focus is on affordability and value for money.
Its claim settlement ratio is
approximately 93% and it has 9600 plus network
hospitals.  On the other hand, there is ICICI Lombard
which is one of the largest general
insurance companies in India.  Their
strength lies in strong claims
infrastructure, large hospital networks
and creation of premium category products
that can tackle future medical inflation.
They have 10,000 plus network
hospitals and current clean collection ratio is
approx 97%.  Looking at the eligibility and
structure, both the plans
target a wide customer base.
Adult entry age in Care Supreme plan is 18
years with maximum no age limit and
dependent children are covered from 90 days to 24 years
in the family floater plan.  Sum
insured option is available from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 1 crore.  The
policy tenure comes with options of one year, two years and
three years.  And the
premium varies according to the four zones.
And in ICICI Low LBA's Elevate plan also, the
adult entry age starts from 18 years
and there is no maximum age limit.
Dependent children are
covered in the family floater plan from 91 days to 30 years.
Sum insured options are available from Rs 5 lakh to
unlimited sum insured and the plans
are priced on a four-zone basis.
Both the plans
are quite flexible at the eligibility level.  Talking about the base cover features, the
core strength of Care Supreme
is the comprehensive hospitalization cover.
It covers in-patient treatment, organ donor
expenses, domiciliary hospitalization and
AYUSH treatment up to fully 5000 rupees.  There is
no capping on room rent and ICU charges.  Meaning you
can choose a room of any category.  Without
any proportionate deduction.  Pre-
hospitalization cover is available for 60 days and post-
hospitalization cover is available for 180 days.
Modern treatments are included and road
ambulance is covered on actual cost basis.  The
base cover of Lombard Elevate from IC has a
limit of single private AC room
and there is no limit on ICU.
Day care procedures, domiciliary
hospitalization, organ donor and AYUSH
treatment are covered as part of the base plan and are
fully covered till the sum assured.
Additionally, pre-hospitalization cover is available for 90 days and post-
hospitalization cover for 180 days,
making the overall protection comprehensive.  Talking about the unique benefits,
these clearly differentiate both the plans from each other.
Whereas the
biggest highlight feature of Supreme is unlimited
automatic recharge.  Where the
company restores 100% base sum insured
equal to unlimited time sum insured upon exhaustion of sum insured.
For both related and unrelated diseases.  With this, the
cumulative bonus
increases by 50% every claim-free year, up to a maximum of 100%,
and the bonus does not reduce even if a claim is made.  You
can avail up to 30% discount on renewal premium through Wellness Discount which improves long term
affordability.  The
stand out feature of the Vic Lumb Elevate plan is the
reset benefit where you can claim the base sum multiple times in a year.
Guaranteed cumulative bonus is available.  Where
in a claim free year, your base sum insured
increases from 50% to a maximum of 100%
and this bonus does not reduce even if a claim is made.
Additionally, as a rare benefit,
cover for in-patient treatment of the surrogate mother and oocyte donor is also available, which can be
very relevant for couples planning maternity.
Now
both the plans are highly customizable at the level of optional covers and add-ons.  The
cumulative bonus can be aggressively boosted with riders like Bonus Super and Bonus Booster in Care Supreme.
Claim Shield and Claim
Shield Plus cover non-payable items.
Consultation benefits are available from Care OPD.
Unlimited Care
offers a larger lifetime claim cover and the
three-year waiting period for pre-existing diseases can be
converted to 30 days with Instant Cover and Instant Cover Plus.  Whereas
in ICICI LBD's Elevate Plan, Power Booster
boosts the sum assured by 100% every year
without any maximum limit.  With the Jump Start
add-on, you can convert the
three-year waiting period for pre-existing diseases into 30 days.
Maternity benefit
covers pregnancy expenses.  B
Fit Add On covers OPD expenses
on a cashless basis along with riders like Critical
Illness, Nursing at Home, Dependent
Accommodation and Personal Accidental.
This plan can be customized as per need.
Now, when it comes to discounts and
waiting periods, they also
practically follow a similar framework
as they fall under IRDA guidelines.  The
initial waiting period for both plans is
30 days.  A waiting period of
2 years is applicable for specific illnesses and a
standard 3 years for pre-existing conditions.
Which can be
reduced through the rider.
Talking about discounts, the Care Supreme
plan offers long term discount up to 10%,
family discount up to 10% and wellness
based discount up
to 30% additional discount on renewal premium.  The
ICICI Low LBA Elevate plan offers incentives like wellness
discount up to 30%, long term discount
up to 15%, civil score discount up to
15% and early renewal discount up to
2.5%.  Due to which the
overall effective premium gets optimized.
Now, if we
look at premium in the context of this entire comparison,
a practical picture emerges.
Care Health Insurance's Care
Supreme plan is categorized into four zones
and its pricing may be slightly premium on the site.
But many high-end
benefits like no room rent limit and
unlimited automatic recharge are included in the base plan
itself.  Which
makes the policy more future proof in the long term.
In Care Supreme Plan, the annual premium for a family floater plan for a couple aged 30 and 25 years
on a sum of Rs 10 lakh in Zone One is Rs
14200, in Zone Two is Rs 1399,
in Zone Three is Rs 12133
and in Zone Four is Rs 8527.  This
means that the
premium is slightly higher in metro cities but
in non-metro zones this plan becomes comparatively
quite affordable.  At the same time,
Elevate Plan of ICICI Low LBA General Insurance may seem
budget friendly in the beginning.
Because for the same age and same family size, the
premium on sum of Rs 10 lakh comes to around Rs 10994 in Zone One, Rs
9953 in Zone Two, Rs
9432 in Zone Three
and Rs 12,596 in Zone Four.
But as soon as you
add practical add-ons like maternity, OPD or jump start, the final
payable premiums increase to a noticeable level.
Therefore,
comparing only the base premium is
not the right approach for long term planning.  It is better that you compare the
final payable premium of both the plans along with the
required add-ons.   Only then will
you clearly understand which
plan is a more sensible and future-proof choice as per your budget and your family's long-term
medical needs.
So
friends, if we understand the entire comparison in an honest
conclusion, then it becomes clear
that Care Supreme by Care Health Insurance
and Elevate Plan by ICC LB General Insurance,
both are
strong health insurance plans in the premium category.
But both focus on slightly different types
of customers.  Care Supreme
is more suitable for those who
want maximum protection in the base plan itself.  Such as
no room rent limit, unlimited automatic
recharge and strong cumulative bonus
so that
the coverage does not reduce even if medical inflation increases in the future.  This plan seems to be a better fit for long term
stability and hassle free claims
experience.
Especially in family floater cases.  At the same time, the
Elevate plan of ICIC LBD may be more relevant for those customers
who want to
build their policy in a modular manner.
Where
lifestyle oriented add ons like reset benefit, maternity cover, OPD
and wellness driven benefits can be
added as per your need.  If you are a
young couple, planning for maternity in the future
and also need OPD or wellness features,
then Elevate aligns better with your use case.
As the best plan is
not a fixed thing.  The best plan is the one that
matches your age, family structure, future planning, budget and long-term medical needs.
Taking decisions based only on the premium can be a
costly mistake in the long term.  Therefore,
before buying a policy, it is important to
compare both the plans according to your profile
and consider real life scenarios.
And yes, if you want an
expert to tell you which plan among
Care Supreme or ICICI Lombard's Elevat will be
better for you according to your case, then do
book your free consultation with Policy Hub's IRDA certified advisors.
Link is given in the description.
See you in the next video
with another practical insurance comparison.   Till then
stay safe, stay insured.